The primary objective of this project is to select three models that apply machine learning algorithms to crops prediction and compare them. Separated testing was utilized, with a preparation size of 70% and a testing size of 30%.
In this project, the brief introduction about stroke and their risk factors were presented in chapter I, followed by that the detailed literature review of the comprehensive study workings in the field of machine learning algorithms were discussed in chapter II. The methodology of few well-known machine learning algorithms such as Ada Boosting, Gradient boosting, XG Boosting, Cat boosting and Light Boosting algorithms were conferred in chapter III. In chapter IV the results of the work with highest accuracy, with 21.0percent, 98.33 percent ,98.18 percent, 98.93percent and 97.57 percent respectively were presented. It clearly reveals that Cat Boosting is the best of the other models as it has the highest accuracy and has greater exactness. By using python open software, the total runtime of each algorithm was approximately 2-3 minutes.

Since agriculture is the key to our country’s economy, therefore any effort done in this sector will put a great effect altogether. Crop yield forecasting is still a difficult task for farmers nationwide., so we need to be more sincere about it. Also, the farmers in our country are not well aware about the different factors that are affecting crops because of this they face a lot of challenges in growing a crop. In order to accomplish this we have proposed a system that will help the Farmers to choose the right crop that will increase their productivity. This project has. Expressed the best suitable recommendation of various crops in India using different ML algorithms like Ada Boosting, Gradient boosting, XG Boosting, Cat boosting and Light Boosting Out of these algorithms,. Cat boosting algorithm achieved the best accuracy result.  
